Alright! In this video, we are gonna take
a look at what exactly is Swagger. So if
you look it up in the dictionary, Swagger
is a verb. It means to walk very
confidently typically in an arrogant
manner aggressive way, or it can be a
noun to be very confident. And again,
typically, a arrogant or aggressive gait
or manner. So, if you wanna talk about
Swagger, let's take a look at this guy,
Conor McGregor. So, one of the toughest
championships in the world, a MMA fighter,
multiple championships, and that is one
heck of Swagger he's got. If I had his
money and his ability to pummel people,
I'd probably Swagger like that myself.
So, but this type of Swagger that we are
looking at is not gonna be have anything
to do with Conor McGregor. Let's just
keep you guys paying attention a little
bit. We are gonna be talking about the
Swagger API. So, Wikipedia calls Swagger
an open source software framework
backed by a large ecosystem of tools
that helps developers design, build, document and consume RESTful Web
services. Now, we've already seen Swagger
in action. That's the API document that we're
looking at when we got into the REST
APIs. An important goal of Swagger is to
define a standard a language-agnostic
interface to REST APIs, which allows
both humans and computers to discover
and understand the capabilities of the
service without access to source code
documentation or through a network
traffic inspection. So, this is all very
important. So it's trying to create
something portable. And I like how they
say language-agnostic because REST API
is even though we're dealing in the Java
and Spring world in this course, the REST
APIs are definitely language-agnostic.
You could be using PHP, you could be
using JavaScript. So they do open up a
significant bandwidth to different
technologies. Okay, now in the REST world,
it is kind of loose. Prior to the RESTful
APIs,
SOAP web services were highly popular.
And one of the things that is really
nice about SOAP is the
WSDL. So, WSDL stands for Web Services
Description Language. Now, the WSDL is
an XML document, which is highly
structured so it it actually conforms to
an XML schema. An important aspect is
that you can think of that WSDL as a
contract, because you can literally take
that WSDL, and there's code generators
for a lot of popular languages to build
all your API software from a WSDL. So,
you can build a client pretty easily
once you get a hold of WSDL. And that,
this is an important thing. Now, with REST,
there is no WSDL equivalent right now.
That is kind of what we are going with
Swagger, but it's not a formal
standard unlike SOAP. SOAP is a formal
standard that has a WSDL. REST does not
have a formal standard, but Swagger is
kind of bringing that up. So, I wanna
point out, when you ask, what is Swagger?
It is more than just documentation. It's
a specification, and they use JSON for
mate metadata. which is data about the
API. They use JSON for the API definition
about what the API is going to do. And
then, JSON also for the Schema and Model
specification. The Swagger specification
is also machine readable. It is language-
agnostic. Meaning, that's not just for
Java and Spring.
Swagger is also supportive for a lot of
popular server-side and client-side
languages, and you'll see that here, as we
get further into the section of the
course.
Now, the swagger ecosystem, there's a
couple major segments of Swagger. Swagger UI,
now this is HTML Javascript and CSS
that is going to generate documentation
from the Swagger specification. And we've
already seen this in the course. Maybe when
we started generating the API spec, when
we went to that website, where we saw
that documentation, that was Swagger
Documentation. Now, there's another really
cool tool called Swagger Editor. You can
go in and edit YAML, or I think, you can
do JSON too. I think YAML is preferred
for Swagger Editor but you can see that
documentation get generated in real time.
Your changes happen in real time.
I am going to record a video on that and
show you a demonstration of that.
Then finally, Swagger Codegen. You can
build client libraries and server side
stubs from a Swagger definition. And this
works not only just for Java and Spring,
but a lot of the other popular
programming languages out there like PHP
and C sharp, and actually, even writing C.
I don't know if I'll does C or not, but a
lot of the very popular languages out
there does have Swagger code generation
capabilities. I'm gonna show you the
Spring generated Swagger Generated
Code, in an upcoming video. Now, the
Swagger Specification. Now, that can
be JSON or YML. All the field names are
gonna be case sensitive. The data
types are gonna be based on JSON
Schema and the models are described also
using the Schema Object from JSON Schema.
Now, Swagger 2 uses JSON Schema draft 4.
So, JSON schema is still an evolving
standard. It is not officially released.
So, these are official, like milestone
releases of the schema. This is something
that is evolving right now. But, unlike
XML, there's not a formal approved
cut and stone standard. This is something
that's still evolving in the community
right now. Now, here's an example of
Swagger specification. So, you can see
here, we have the Swagger version number.
This is just good old YAML, and it
describes the API. You can see, we have a
path, a list, and
you can look at this and get a pretty
good idea of what this API is going to
do, just from reading the YAML. And
there's a whole specification on what
the specification does. Now, the Swagger
Specification is also known as Swagger
RESTful API Documentation Specification.
So, that's a full name of it. But, we are
now in the Swagger 2.0 world, and that
became officially known as the OpenAPI
Specification. So, you still see, a lot of
people call it Swagger Specification. But
there has been a name change to OpenAPI
Specification. A lot of people still
called Java Enterprise J2EE, when it that
was dropped over a decade ago. And now
it's JEE.
So, two different things. But I think the
community is gonna start adopting the
OpenAPI Specification and that is in
Swagger 3.0, and the ecosystem and
tooling is still adapting to Swagger 3.0.
That is not out in the wild yet, or
Swagger 3.0 is. But what I'm gonna be
showing you in the course, the tools
working with Spring, it's gonna be around
2.0 because Swagger 3.0 July 2017,
that was just about five months ago at
the time of recording, so a lot of the
tooling and ecosystem are catching up to
the 3.0 release. So, everything I'm
actually showing you in this course
right now is gonna be on the 2.0
specification. Okay, now coming up in
the course, we are gonna be using a
library called Spring Fox, and that's
gonna allow us to generate Swagger
Documentation right out of Spring MVC. So,
the REST API is that we've set up, we are
gonna use Spring Fox to generate Swagger
Documentation. It's actually really cool.
You'll be able to see that generated
right online. We'll be able to go to
endpoint and see that. And then, I'm gonna
show you how to customize that, how you
can set some different settings in it,
and also enhance it for your specific
use case. Then, we're gonna take a look
at the Swagger Editor and show you how
we can use that online tool. And then,
also, there's a the Swagger Pet Store and
we're gonna take a look at the
generated code, the Spring Framework code,
so we can generate Spring Framework code
from that. I'm not gonna get too down
the rabbit hole on that but I wanna
show you some of these different tools
that you can use on Swagger and
using Swagger to generate your
documentation. Also, to generate actual
API. So, it's actually a lot of cool stuff
that we're gonna be getting into
coming up in this course.